README.md, before:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/cli/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

Commit message:

feat: RUI - Research Understanding Intelligence v1.0
- AI-powered critical analysis workflow for academic research
- Upload PDF papers and extract text
- Structured analysis with key findings, methodology, contributions
- Critical review with peer-reviewer style assessment
- Comparative analysis across multiple papers
- Final report generation with customizable sections
- Per-section in-text citations toggle
- APA 7th Edition reference formatting
- PDF export functionality
- Mendeley integration for library management
- Support for OpenAI and Google Gemini providers
- Modern dark theme UI with workflow visualization

README.md, after:

RUI — Research Understanding Intelligence

AI-assisted critical analysis workflow for research papers. Paste a DOI and/or upload a PDF, generate:

- Structured analysis (RQ, methods, findings, contributions, limitations, future work)
- Optional related work list (manual add or Mendeley search)
- Comparative analysis (main vs related)
- Final critical analysis report (recommended or custom structure)
- PDF export (client-side)

## Getting Started

## Getting started

1. Create a local env file:

- Copy `.env.example` → `.env.local`
- Fill in `OPENAI_API_KEY` and/or `GEMINI_API_KEY`
- (Optional) Fill in Mendeley credentials if you want in-app related work search

2. Run the dev server (configured for port 8080 to match the Mendeley redirect URI):

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open http://localhost:8080

Notes:

- No authentication and no database: everything is stored in `localStorage`.
- AI calls happen server-side via Next.js route handlers, so keys stay in `.env.local`.
- Mendeley is optional and uses OAuth; click “Connect Mendeley (optional)” in the UI.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## Deployment

This can be deployed like any Next.js app. For small-group sharing, you can run it on a single machine and share the URL via your network.
